  I looked at the topic, Increase in Safety & Reduction in Violence. Several graphs stood out to me. First, military expenditure has gone down. Without any other knowledge the graph could mean one or two things. Either countries are not as safe because they do not have funds to supply their military, or the world has become safer so there is no need to spend as much on the military. In the graph showing leading causes of death, murder and war are very minimal.  The population of individuals under democracy has risen. Nuclear war stock has decreased Car and plane death rates, homicide rates, violent crime rates, rape, and child labor have decreased greatly. The US violent crime rate per 100,000 people has been trending downward since 1990 but still remains above the levels seen in the 60s and 70s. This shows there is further progress to be made. 
  Overall the graphs demonstrate a positive impact in that safety has increased. The trends show a lot of progress for the category of safety and reduction in violence. There are possible limitations however in that there may be specific regions where life is becoming more dangerous and violent such as Afghanistan or certain cities around the world. There also may be many dangers that go unreported. However, there does appear to be significant progress because each graph supports one another in a way. For example if military expenditure goes down it makes sense that death by war also goes down because there are no large wars occurring. If violent crime rates go down, so do homicides.  The only thing not shown by the graphs is what exactly is the reason for the safer and less violent atmosphere. 
  With Amartya Sen in mind, seeing that safety is increasing and violence is decreasing is great for the process of human development. Individuals feeling safe in their environment is one of the first of many steps towards reaching the freedoms that promote development. Though it appears that safety is trending upwards and violence downwards, there are still barriers. Barriers include countries under dictatorship, which Sen has described as having a negative effect on human development. Countries under dictatorships tend to be more violent and with less freedoms. Something else I noticed from many of the graphs is that they have a rise and fall. This is concerning because if rates were able to be lower than they are now and rise, what stops them from rising once again. For the most part however, the declines appear to be steady. 
