	Something I have always been interested in is wildlife. Wildlife is completely out of my field of study. I am studying psychology and kinesiology, but animals, specifically the species in danger of extinction, have always been an interest of mine. Over the past years many species have been facing increasing dangers and possible extinction. Preserving the species of the planet is something I really care about. I believe that using data science can be useful in adapting ways to combat the eradication of certain species. I have always loved elephants and knowing  that the Asian Elephant is at risk of extinction is upsetting to me. Luckily, data science can be used to collect information on the elephant, create statistics and produce predictions we can learn from. 
  
	There should first be a pool of information, which I believe there is, that totals all Asian Elephants in the wild and captivity for the past few years. This would be the insight which leads to statistics. Data such as their birth rate, death rate, poaching, etc., would be helpful. This data can then be used to answer analysis questions such as, what was the biggest cause for population decline in the past year? Is the Asian Elephant surviving better in the wild or captivity? These are super important questions to have answered in order to reverse the path to extinction. Based on the data we could acquire certain statistics like how many elephants died due to poaching versus disease.  All the data collected and statistics provided would be part of machine learning. Algorithms can be used to predict what will happen to the species if nothing changes, and test what would happen if different variables were eliminated or introduced. For example, based on previous statistics and analysis, if all elephants were relocated to wildlife reserves, what would be the effect on the population. Based on the predictions produced through machine learning, scientists and wildlife experts can decide what humans can do to get the species back on the right track. This could be completely staying out of the way and letting elephants build their species back on their own while we remain strict on laws against poaching. It could also mean taking every elephant left and placing them on a reserve where they can be carefully monitored and encouraged to reproduce. These same methods could be used for any of the species that are currently at danger of extinction. 
