The Human Development Index (HDI) has its main factors as life expectancy at birth, expected years of schooling, mean years of schooling, and GNI per capita. These encompass the dimensions of human development fairly well. Long and healthy life, knowledge, a decent standard of living. It is hard to say that using these few measurements can accurately rate the human development levels of a country. There are so many variables to consider. For example, just because a country may have many years of schooling, does not mean the education is good quality. Alternatively, a country with less years of schooling may have incredible education programs and high success despite it being shorter than other countries. The categories measured have a lot of open-endeds. GNI per capita can easily be skewed. Extremely poor countries may be overestimated in income due to areas of super high wealth. The categories measures do not necessarily demonstrate development unless we know the full logistics and specifics of each. Beyond the categories measured and what could be fixed within them, I think that more measurements could be added to improve the HDI. I think it could be helpful to find a way to measure the amount of basic freedoms each country has. The type of rule by the government and the freedoms allowed to the people have a lot to do with human development. If a country has a democracy with rights and freedoms, it will be higher than a country under dictatorship or autocracy. Citizens with the freedoms to vote, religion, and other things have much higher levels of development.  Measurements of certain living conditions could also improve the accuracy of the index. For example, the availability of clean water, the distance to a medical center, and the amount of exposure to harmful toxins. Safety is another big factor that could be considered in this index. I feel like there are endless measurements that could be added to get a full picture of human development worldwide. But this would take time and money. It also can be challenging to gather certain data from some parts of the world.  So, considering the time and resources that would have to go into a completely accurate HDI, I think these categories are pretty fair and could suffice well enough on their own. At this point in time, the HDI serves its purpose and does not need full construction, but there are many ways it can be developed and improved in the future. 
