	<file:///home/chronos/u-9659ee3f6e4140223644dfd069891061b9eff441/MyFiles/Downloads/Litrature%20Review%20(1).pdf>
	
	
	DATA 150
	Gianna Simon
	Literature Review
	Natural Disaster Management; Improvement Through Data Science
	Professor Brewer
	The College of William and Mary






Introduction:
	Natural disasters come in all shapes and sizes, and are particularly scary because humans tend to have little control over them. Sometimes there is warning but sometimes disasters arise unexpectedly. Natural disasters come in different forms such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, tornadoes, forest fires. Different parts of the world deal with different types and intensities. The short and long term effects of natural disasters can be absolutely devastating.  A major problem occurring from natural disasters is how to effectively manage the aftermath. There are many factors that go into disaster response and management such as prevention, forecasting, mapping, aid allocation, loss assessment and more. In emergency situations, the time it takes to receive help for disaster survivors can mean life or death. Creating a clear and safe path to survivors is a challenge. Recognizing where individuals may remain after the destruction can be challenging. To promote human development it is important to try and find ways to make disaster relief and response more efficient. All regions of the world are susceptible to natural disasters. While looking at disaster response as a whole, this paper places some focus on China. In past years China has witnessed a rise in natural disasters which many researchers attribute to climate change. This could be a whole other paper on its own (Ding, et al.).  Natural disasters China has faced include floods, typhoons, droughts, sandstorms, earthquakes, storm surges, landslides, hailstorms, cold waves, heat waves, forest fires, grassland fires, red tides, rodent disease and pest disease. There are over 100 different types of naturally occurring disasters that China has had to face (OCHA). China also has a huge population that continues to rise. With the rising threat of disaster and millions of people, it is imperative that should disaster hit, the government and its people would be able to effectively respond.
	
Dimensions of Human Development:
	The dimensions of humans touched upon in this research include a long and healthy life as well as a decent standard of living. Having systems that can monitor and predict natural disasters gives humans a higher chance of survival. Being able to reach those seeking medical assistance more quickly increases survival. The recognition of natural disasters and timely response ultimately allow for individuals to have a longer and healthier life. By using systems to analyze the damage and give aid after disaster gives individuals a decent standard of living. Amartya Sen defines human development as the expansion of freedoms. Creating new and improved ways to respond to natural disasters gives individuals freedom to feel safer in their lives allowing them to enjoy more of the things they choose. People in poorer areas that are most at risk will be allocated aid more efficiently through new technologies. The standards at which response is acted out will increase. Having the ability to correctly and efficiently respond to natural disasters is a huge piece of human development. 
	
China:
	Increasing natural disasters in China have created large challenges by creating economic damages, widespread devastation, and loss of lives (Ding, et al.) China is privy to more types of natural disasters than most regions. One of the only disasters they have not faced is volcanic eruptions. Disaster management is super challenging especially in a country like China where the population is rising and the urbanization is climbing. There are several issues with the National Disaster Reduction Application System of China, which researchers propose can be fixed through a novel Focusing Service Mechanism. These mechanisms are able to optimize the allocation or resources and keep correct disaster information. A new Integrated Disaster Information Service System would be best for improving disaster management in China.
	In China more citizens have been moving to cities which poses a challenge for emergency management and response. In China a rising issue is fire incidents. Though fires are largely controlled or occurring due to humans, sometimes they arise naturally or by accident and are a part of natural disasters. The placement and response of fire stations lacks efficiency. A proposition for the use of geospatial big data to identify fire risks and therefore reallocate fire stations and supplies has been put forth. 
	For the past several years China has used the National Disaster Reduction Application System (DRAS) created between 2002 and 2008 by the National Disaster Reduction Center of China (NDRCC). The DRAS has been used as a tool to provide spatial technical support for disaster management applications. The system is in a top-down data-centric style which leads to limitations. (Ding, et al). There are several main issues when it comes to the current and previous disaster response and management in China. There is a lack of accessibility and exchange ability of disaster resources. A lack of an active disaster information service. A lack of diverse resource integration mechanisms. China currently has a disaster management process that is under closed, passive, static, and centralized desktop solutions. There is also a lack in the capability to exploit the high-resolution RS data that China produces (Ding, et al.).
	
Methodology:
	Many different researchers have used different methods to look at and try to find solutions to disaster response. The majority of the methods center around data science and technology. This includes the use of earth observation data (EO), and geographic information science (GIS) technologies and services before, during, and after disaster (Sweta and Bijker). Mobile phone call records were used to identify internally displaced persons (IDPs) after a disaster (Xiu Li, et al.). UAVs or unmanned aerial vehicles were used to aid in data collection during the search and rescue of survivors (Yang, et al.). A Focusing Service Mechanism was used as well as an Integrated Disaster Information Service System (IDISS) to allocate resources and find demand after disaster (Ding, et al.). The Geospatial Semantic Web (GSW) was used in combination with Web Feature Service requests (Zhang, et al.). Geospatial big data has been used in optimizing locations of disaster (Yu, et al.). In China the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS) was used (L. Zhang, et al.). In one study a variety of different models were tested to find the most efficient response systems. The approach is called modeling and simulation (M&S) (Bae, et al.). 
	
Geospatial Technologies and Data:
	Geospatial technologies and data have become a large part of disaster management. Over the years the use of geospatial technologies  for disaster management has evolved because of the need for geospatial solutions in disaster situation to save life and property( Abdalla, et al.).Using these technologies in the arduous process of disaster management helps facilitate the production of valuable information in regards to natural disasters. Having geospatial data modeled, simulated, and visualized gives scientists and decision makers an easier way to use information to effectively understand, generate, and come up with decisions regarding disaster (Abdalla, et al.) These technologies are great because of their level of accessibility, reliability, and effectiveness in providing accurate examples, models, and simulations of real world phenomena. 
	
Earth Observation:
	The use of Earth Observation (EO) has been very popular among researchers and data scientists exploring improvements in disaster management. It is essential to the data lifecycle and plays a major role in Earth science research. The data lifecycle has many stages such as planning, acquisition, processing, analysis, preservation, publishing, and sharing. A crucial aspect of natural disasters is having quick access to spatial information. EO data is directly affected by how up to date and reliable geographical data sets are. There are four phases that go into the production of EO. Prevention and mitigation. Early warning and preparation. Response. Recovery. The production is influenced by constraints such as suitability of the satellite position, availability of pre and post disaster data, field data, and feedback (Sweta and Bijker). There are limitations of EO data which is why researchers aim to improve its standard. Limitations include a lack of diverse resource integration mechanism, lack of sharin-oriented metadata standards, and a lack of national data sharing infrastructure (L. Zhang, et al.).
	When it comes to Earth Observation in China, there is the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS).  When it comes to Earth observation in China there is a lack of diverse resource integration mechanisms. There is a lack of sharing oriented metadata standards. Metadata describes Earth Observation data and is developed by data providers for industry applications. There is a lack of national data sharing infrastructure. In China there is a large gap between data requirements and data acquisition which affects the service quality for consumers (L. Zhang, et al.). The Global Earth Observation System of Systems is partly effective in addressing above concerns. It has a full and open exchange of data, metadata, and products. All shared data, metadata, and products are all available fairly quickly and are cheap, ranging from absolutely free or no more than the cost to produce it. Further, researchers have developed a China GEOSS DSnet based on data sharing principles of promotion and organization of Chinese Earth observation resources, connection of platforms for information integration, and consideration of a country’s requirements for sustainable development and co-design support for administrators (L. Zhang, et al). 
	
Integrated Disaster Information Service:
	An Integrated Disaster Information Service System (IDISS) was implemented by researchers for use by the Chinese government. This is a service-oriented approach. By integrating and reusing already existing data resources such as data, software packages, and monitoring sensors in order to provide on-demand services, it would allow decision makers and scientists to carry out disaster management tasks. There are four major characteristics including perception, interconnection, intelligence, and collaboration. Services and interfaces used in the IDISS include sensor service  which offers functionality to search and provide observation data. A map with portrayal service providing users with 2D maps of specific datasets. A data service that provides geospatial data management. A processing service providing GIS and RS operations and functions. And an analysis service providing spatial analysis functions (Dine, et al.). There are also layers to the IDISS, Resource Layer, Service Layer, and Application Layer. The Resource Layer deals with sharing resources and providing protocols. It includes security equipment, and network devices. The Service Layer provides links between the Resource Layer and Application Layer. It includes service clusters. The Application Layer serves as an entry point for application users.
	
UAVs:
	UAVs are unmanned aerial vehicles that recently have been used as a way to increase the efficiency of finding and rescuing survivors of disasters. UAVs have the ability to collect information around disaster sites including the locations of individuals and their nearest emergency or medical centers. UAVs are great in aided disaster management in guiding medical assistance. Medical assistance is crucial to disaster management as it could mean life or death to individuals affected. UAVs are able to fly over areas and gather information, and can be specifically designed for search and rescue. The limitations of UAVs is that they have a poor battery life which makes it harder to survey large areas for reasonable amounts of time. Also there can be issues in being able to deliver the collected data quickly and clearly. Researchers have been working to optimize UAVs through the creation of multiple scenarios and working through data algorithms and systems. 
	
Conclusion:
	Natural disasters are increasing across the world. The intensity of these disasters have also seen an increase. This is a large-scale global issue with some regions at higher risk. In countries with growing population and urbanization, managing disasters can be increasingly challenging. China is one of the countries that has faced these challenges. Thankfully there has been much research done and many new technologies give a positive look to the future of disaster management. Geospatial technologies and geospatial data have played a large role. With all technology there are gaps, downfall, and flaws to be tweaked. Finding the correct pathways and correct algorithms can be crucial in life or death situations. The challenge of finding systems that work for large regions or multiple different climates and landscapes are hard to tackle. A lot of progress has been made when it comes to disaster management and response, especially in China, but there is development to be made.


References

Abdalla, R., & Li, J. (2010). Towards effective application of geospatial technologies for disaster management. ITC Journal, 12(6), 405-407. doi:10.1016/j.jag.2010.09.003
Bae, J. W., Shin, K., Lee, H., Lee, H. J., Lee, T., Kim, C. H., . . . Moon, I. (2018). Evaluation of disaster response system using agent-based model with geospatial and medical details. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics. Systems, 48(9), 1454-1469. doi:10.1109/TSMC.2017.2671340
Ding, Y., Fan, Y., Du, Z., Zhu, Q., Wang, W., Liu, S., & Lin, H. (2014). An integrated geospatial information service system for disaster management in China Informa UK Limited. doi:10.1080/17538947.2014.955540
Sweta, L. O., & Bijker, W. (2013). Methodology for assessing the usability of earth observation-based data for disaster management. Natural Hazards (Dordrecht), 65(1), 167-199. doi:10.1007/s11069-012-0351-x
Xiu Li, Rongsheng Huang, Ming Jin, Jianguo Ma, Yujiu Yang, Xianyang Wu, & Liufang Liao. (Sep 2011). SNS application using call detail records. Paper presented at the 4972-4975. doi:10.1109/ICECENG.2011.6057443 Retrieved from https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6057443
Yang, Y., Qiu, X., Li, S., Wang, J., Chen, W., Hung, P. C. K., & Zheng, Z. (2019). Energy-efficient data routing in cooperative UAV swarms for medical assistance after a disaster. Chaos (Woodbury, N.Y.), 29(6), 063106. doi:10.1063/1.5092740
Yu, W., Guan, M., & Chen, Y. (2021). Fire stations siting with multiple objectives and geospatial big data. Earth Science Informatics, 14(1), 141-160. doi:10.1007/s12145-020-00539-5
Zhang, C., Zhao, T., Usery, E. L., Varanka, D., & Li, W. (2020). Improving geospatial query performance of an interoperable geographic situation‐awareness system for disaster response. Transactions in GIS, 24(2), 508-525. doi:10.1111/tgis.12614
Zhang, L., Li, G., Zhang, C., Yue, H., & Liao, X. (2018). Approach and practice: Integrating earth observation resources for data sharing in china GEOSS Informa UK Limited. doi:10.1080/17538947.2018.1504995

