  The topic I chose to look at was Mental Health. The amount of people living with a mental health disorder is significant. At 792 million people it's twice the size of the US population not focusing on distribution. These are only the reported cases. Mental Health has become less stigmatized over the years but there is still a long way to go. The public understanding of mental health is still very surface level. Some statistics provided on the page that I found interesting was that mental and substance use disorders arise in 1 in 7 people. Typically women are more likely than men to have a mental disorder. Anxiety and depression are the most common mental health disorders worldwide
  The topic included many charts but I looked at the ones that were the most interesting to me. One of the charts I looked at was Suicide rates vs. prevalence of depression, 2017. This chart really surprised me. I assumed there would be a positive correlation between depressive disorder rates and suicide rates. The chart has not even the slightest linear pattern. However, the country with the highest depressive disorder rates did have the highest suicide rates. Other than that it appeared to be a messy scatterplot. The more I look at it, it almost appears to take a bell curve shape. 
  Another graph I looked at was Prevalence of eating disorders by age. I expected the highest rates to be in teens and 20s because I feel that is when individuals are most susceptible to social media pressure. I thought this would be true for several countries. However, the prevalence by age changes significantly by country. This shows that there has to be a societal influence in eating disorders because it affects age groups differently depending on where they live. For example in the United States most prevalence was in 25-29 year olds, then 20-24 year olds, then 30-34 year olds. In Afghanistan and China rates were highest in 30-34 year olds. Something else I found surprising is that prevalence is showing up in individuals as young as 5. Most people view eating disorders as something that affects teens and 20 year olds and does not last. Looking at the prevalence shows that stereotype is wrong. However in most of the countries 0% of individuals 50 and over have an eating disorder. 
  The next chart I looked at is Number of people with depression by country. Since Amartya Sen defines human development as the elimination of unfreedoms, I figured that the lowest rates would be in democratic countries where people enjoy many freedoms. It would make sense to believe the most developed countries would be the happiest. However, the United States has the second highest number of depressed individuals. The limitations of this data however tells only the number of people with depression but not in regards to population size. India has the highest number of people by far but it is also one of the most populated countries. 
